suppose you're talking to an
acquaintance somebody you don't know too
terribly well
a friend of a friend he doesn't have a
degree in the sciences he doesn't have a
background in engineering
let's just say he's even a failed actor
and sometime youtuber and he says to you
he has an idea for a brilliant new
invention that's going to change the
world that's going to make millions of
dollars
he just needs some startup investment he
needs a little bit of capital
to get the ball rolling but once it gets
rolling this could
transform daily life for millions of
americans
coast to coast and generate a lot of
revenue okay okay
okay i'm i'm listening what's this idea
he says this is an amazingly simple idea
it's so simple that i can't believe
someone else didn't come up with it yet
now
you should be more suspicious not less
because they say
okay what's what's what's your idea
doesn't it bother you that every day you
have to recharge your cell phone
would wouldn't it be better if we had
self recharging cell phones
wouldn't that be better i can't believe
someone hasn't has that already if you
give me the money i'm going to bring
this
hey what what do you mean could you
narrow it down for me a little bit like
do you have blueprints do you have a
schematic like what is this technology
or no
no just just put the money up now put
the investment now
and in fact he tells you he's gonna make
a documentary movie
showing the progress of this building
they're already filming in fact they're
talk he's talking to you right now and
there's a videographer
recording this now you're staying there
looking at him like okay you're so
confident in the great success of this
idea that you got a video but you don't
have a blueprint you don't have a patent
you don't have a background so there's
there's really nothing more to this idea
than like
a two sentence pitch and now i'm asking
you
what is the idea are you talking about a
cell phone
with a solar panel on the back are you
talking about a cell phone with a pair
of legs
that walks itself over to the uh the
outlet and plugs itself into is that
what you mean
by a self charge that says no no it's
just you know it's such a bother
having to recharge yourself we should
have we should have cell phones that
charge
so what so what does it plug into oh no
it doesn't it doesn't plug in anything
it just
it's just for charging itself look
brad the laws of physics
can't be suspended you can't just call
for an exception
to the laws of physics so that your
stupid idea can work and you can make
millions of dollars in this documentary
you're filming can have a happy ending
that's not the way reality on planet
earth goes
there has to be a source of electricity
you can't just say you're going to
invent the cell phone that has no
source of electricity that that's
ridiculous right
and a good friend a good friend would
take the time to ridicule
the idea to make him realize how
ridiculous it is
a few of you will have already figured
out who and what i'm talking about here
i'm talking about internet personality
dax flame
um years ago now
we saw the movie the disaster artist
and we saw it on an airplane it's pretty
much the only circumstance i've watched
conventional cinema
and if i'm uh trapped on an airplane and
too tired to get
reading or research done on an airplane
watch this film the disaster artist
the disaster artist is a comedy but
really
it could be played as a tragedy it could
be a tremendously dark and dismal film
because what what is the disaster artist
about
it's about a mentally disabled man it's
about a man who has had a life-changing
brain injury he has difficulty
speaking some of you might know this is
commonly talked about in the press
one of the side effects of brain damage
can be so-called foreign accent syndrome
it's quite common with car accidents
to get your head caved in and situated
get a serious concussion or brain injury
such that you're just struggling to
speak your own native language but
because
of that brain damage it sounds as if
english is your second legend it sounds
as if you're
talking with an accent this guy is badly
brain damaged
he has a lot of money in the bank he's
in hollywood
he says he's gonna make a movie and
everyone enables him
this guy is like the worst actor and the
worst
screenwriter imaginable but everyone is
taking his money
and everyone is encouraging him right
from the the
the coaches and the agents and the
people who
selling license renting the equipment
the film
everyone around him the actors he
employs everyone's taking his money
everyone's encouraging everyone's saying
you can do it you're gonna be great
you're good at this
right and you know not one person is
honest with him and says look
how can you be the lead actor in a movie
you can barely speak
in complete sentences you know if you're
going to invest millions of dollars in
making a film
you had millions of dollars to his name
maybe you should for your first film
project
invest with someone who's an experienced
and proven writer an experienced and
proven director
maybe even some experienced and proven
actors even if they've only had small
scale success
maybe you should work with people you
know what they're doing maybe you should
have people around you
who can criticize your script and tell
you what's wrong with them criticize
your act they can tell you what's wrong
maybe you shouldn't just be surrounded
by yes ma'am this was a really
mentally limited guy and you know what
this film is based on
uh the disaster artist is a true story
that resulted in one of the worst films
ever made
being released in theaters it's called
the room it's much
laughed at and mocked and i know i know
people behave today
as if that movie the room had been
produced as a comedy
in the first place but it wasn't it was
it was a
serious drama that is so bad it's so
awful that people laugh at it
not with it right it's this seriously
mentally disabled guys
attempt to write a script and perform
and employ all these people and pay all
this money
and he made their lives miserable making
the film too and i get it
i mean it's it's so absurd you can now
take this
and present it as a comedy but really
it's a tragedy um i i do not know
if dax flame identifies as
mentally disabled if you google this
guy's name
of course there's always been
speculation that he's somewhere on the
spectrum
for something like autism that he has
some kind of inborn
mental disability and we've been able to
see thanks to youtube how his behavior
changed from his teenage years
to his adulthood now but if he's not
disabled he is a very very stupid guy
and he came out with this idea here on
youtube
um an idea so simple that he couldn't
believe nobody had ever done it before
right and what was this idea why should
you have to go to the grocery store
to buy lettuce why should you have to go
to the grocery store and buy
broccoli and other green vegetables
why can't you just have a basket with
dirt in the bottom
sitting on your kitchen counter and you
chop up some vegetables
and then the next day they've
regenerated and there are more
vegetables
so what i was watching is his concept
video his pitch where he's explaining
this i was thinking
okay so is he selling like a delivery
service where you sign up
and every day or when someone comes and
delivers new
is that the point like he can't really
be so
stupid that he's unaware that the reason
why you have to go to a store
to buy vegetables is because they're
grown on a
farm like he can't be unaware
that lettuce requires a farm
and rain and sunshine and
time to like it doesn't generate in 24
hours like
on your kitchen count like how could he
possibly be missing these pieces of the
puzzle he
really is that stupid whether he's
mentally disabled not
he really is that stupid and he went
ahead and he made a documentary
where he interviews all these people who
are enabling him
all these people i i don't know if there
was a single person who told him he was
an idiot
or if there was a single person who even
challenged him saying look
why don't you have some respect for the
specialists in this field
people who actually studied at
agriculture or agricultural technology
or related fields of engineering at
texas a
m why don't you respect a humble farmer
you you know go
talk to somebody who never even went to
high school but he spent their whole
life
farming lettuce and they can explain to
you why lettuce won't grow
on your kitchen counter under a heat
lamp this is just
not remotely viable or how many heads of
lettuce do you expect
per annum per year to generate
this is there's so much wrong with this
idea
it's just laughable but nobody's
laughing you know
now i'm not going to say this guy has
millions of dollars he has some money
and he has some fame and he was able to
translate his fame into money he did
basically a kickstarter
he did crowdfunding he asked for
donations
one smart thing he did was he didn't
promise he'd actually
mass produce this thing he just asked
for the donations to pay for the
documentary that was going to follow him
on his journey
to make this magnificent new invention
an
invention that absolutely could not
possibly work
any more than this impossible notion of
a
self-charging cell phone um
okay what what does a real friend
do in those situations if you guys been
watching my channel for a long time you
know
how i feel about this if you have a
friend who wants to be an
actor and they don't even have a good
speaking voice they can't speak in whole
sentences
you know whether it's due to a mental
disability or a stutter or whatever you
got to say them look
unless you're planning to be a mime
unless you're by an act
do silent film like you know you
really gotta check yourself this dream
is not gonna become a reality you've
really gotta think this through
if you have a friend who wants to be a
fashion model and they're
only five foot four i mean oh well look
you know if you want to be a basketball
player and you're
five foot six and 300 pound whatever it
is you should have friends in your life
who really talk to you honestly
about the gap between you know
in order to dream you've got to be
asleep
do you want friends who are going to
lead you deeper and deeper
into that kind of dreaming
self-deception
or do you want friends who are going to
help you to be awake be alive and
and live in the real world and all of
you now sitting here and watching this
video may say oh
i want option b i want friends who will
tell me
i'm wrong when i'm wrong and that i'm
being stupid when i'm stupid
and then i'm too ugly or untalented or
you might say that right now in the
context of this video
but in your real lives
how many facebook groups have been
kicked out of for saying
the most mild well-mannered
well-intentioned critical thing
imaginable like the human capacity
to hear criticism to hear contrasting
points of view
to hear someone tell you you're wrong
you don't know which document here's a
link to an article that provides the
information you don't know
the human capacity to hear criticism do
tolerance to invite criticism
dissent and contrasting views it's
terrifying how limited that is
and that's why our species for thousands
of years
toiled in despotism we were ruled by
kings and tyrants and you know this
thing called democracy
here and there you know experimentally
sometimes
failing sometimes stumbling one of the
most fundamental ideas is just you bring
people together on a council
and really have them criticize and
debate one another's views
and guess what nobody thinks of that as
friendship
and it is it's the most the most
wonderful kind of friendship
you could have would be a productive
collaborative
rivalry where people really can't tell
you that you're wrong
so the next chapter in the dax flame
honesty
tragically um is that he got on board
with another
larger more famous more affluent
youtuber this youtuber shows up at his
house and interviews him and he says
well look what do you want to do with
your future what's going on with you
and daxflame says he has a great idea
he's gonna
he's gonna do a game show and this guy
dex flame
again i don't know if he's actually
disabled i mean
he's the only human being on earth who
would make a worse
game show host than vegan gains
he talks with flat affects he can't make
icon he says oh i've got this great idea
for a game show
and guess who the game show host is
going to be it's going to be me it's
going to be me with my
tremendous level of personal charisma
and conversational ability
chit-chatting people on camera and of
course everybody just enables them
nobody says to look if you want this to
be a successful game show
look in the mirror watch your own
youtube videos you know who on earth
could be a worse
game shows you can put out a casting
call right now you can compete against
the other people
who will show up at a casting call in
los angeles for the role of game show
host on a new game show
you're going to be 10th and out of 10
you'll be 99th out of 99
however many contestants we have how
many competitors we have to come to this
game shows
you are going to be the worst applicant
for this job you know
a real friend would say that but no as
in that film the disaster artist
he's surrounded by yes man he's
surrounded by encouragement
and what are they really encouraging him
to do
they're encouraging him to live in a
dream instead of
live in reality these aren't the same
people
but they're the same type of people who
said wow
what a great idea why can't people just
grow vegetables like broccoli and
lettuce
on their countertop why hasn't that
already been invented
why can't that just be mass-marketed why
can't you just start asking for hundreds
of thousands of dollars in investment
and you know
why just take this idea and run with it
you know
that's not really any more kind than if
someone tells you they're going to walk
across a bridge and you know the bridge
is out
you know the bridge is going to collapse
under their feet that you just encourage
them
you know to to get out there and and
keep on walking
so look i mean what's what is the
conclusion
of this video i mean what is the
conclusion of this video
people say they want friendship
but what they really want is flattery
and
it's especially on the internet i see
that playing out again and again and
again
that people and obviously this is uh
associated with celebrities
but we see this with people who have no
fame and no money no fortune to their
name
on the small scale it seems like
everyone tries to surround themselves
with a coven
of followers that's the term we use on
the internet
of uncritical adulation where they're
not
hearing these things they're not
considering you know uh contrasting
perspectives
so that's it this is my commentary on
the rise
and rise of dax flame um
[Music]
i guess for members of the audience and
for people who literally donated money
to support this guy maybe the fantasy is
that a complete idiot can see can
succeed
that anyone can live their dream and
that by helping someone like this
live their dream they're vicariously
living out
you know their own dreams um
maybe it's just too uncomfortable
reality to recognize
that no you know there are people who
have degrees in electrical engineering
there are people who study and master
the science of hydroponics and
agriculture and all of these things and
you know
you know maybe instead of this idea of
clinging to your dream
you could really have a kind of respect
for the accumulated
knowledge and wisdom of centuries and
millennia
however imperfectly that's accessible to
you that farming happens the way it does
for a reason and that if you're going to
contribute something to that great
development of
of culture and agriculture and
technology
you're going to first have to walk in
the footsteps
of those people who came before you and
learned what they learned and learned
some of it the same way that they
learned it
you know before adding on your own
little innovation
you know at the end of that that grand
process of thousands of years
and i can even say that about cinema i
can even say that about politics and i
can even say that about youtube why do i
read aristotle
why do i read about ancient politics and
the history of
great political movements that have
failed before me most
most of what i study in politics is
failure it's a history of
disaster and and failure all kinds of
grand plans and schemes including
with communism these schemes to
transform agriculture overnight
you know when millions of people starve
to death oh we're just going to throw
away
the textbooks in agriculture we have
this great new idea of how farming can
be transformed
communism was full of exactly that kind
of reckless innovation
that led to nowhere but sure even in
even in filmmaking you know you could
look at somebody like
the subject of the disaster artist in
the rooms or for the guy's name
or you could look at dax flame himself
and say look you know
maybe there's really something in the
history of cinema maybe there's really
something that people are learning in
these university programs
maybe there are technical and artistic
maybe there are elements here
maybe you need to have the humility to
walk in someone else's footsteps even if
you have the money even if you have
millions of dollars
or you have the fan base you have the
fame you have support just go and start
making your own feature film
um maybe you should go and be the
assistant to the assistant
to the director of photography maybe you
should be an intern and stand on set
maybe you should learn how it's done
um maybe you should maybe you should
learn from people who already have this
conversation respect those who
came before you so i mean i guess that's
uh that's a conclusion i hadn't thought
of before press record in this video
but when you think about that
relationship of people living
um as a dreamer only beholden to their
dream
i guess bundled up with that
is a kind of contempt for um the
accumulated wisdom
of the waking world of those of us who
are awake those of us who have empirical
experience
those of us who've accomplished
something before you know no no no i'm
going to cast aside
all the things you people did wrong i'm
going to with my great new invention my
great new idea
i'm going to change the world as opposed
to having the humility to say look i'm
going to walk in the footsteps
of all the people who came before me
before taking my own small step
further offering something innovative
that builds on the past
that isn't just denying it or in effect
denying the laws of physics